#https://www.learn-english-today.com/proverbs/proverbs.html

A bad excuse is better than none.
Always give an excuse when necessary, even if it's a poor one.

A bad penny always turns up.
An unwanted or disreputable person constantly comes back.

A bad tree does not yield good apples.
A bad parent does not raise good children.

A bad workman blames his tools.
Blaming the tools for bad workmanship is an excuse for lack of skill.

A barking dog seldom bites.
Someone who constantly makes threats rarely carries them out.

A bird in hand is worth two in a bush.
It is better to keep what you have rather than to risk losing it by searching for something better.

A black plum is as sweet as a white.
People should not be judged by their appearance.

A book holds a house of gold.
There is a wealth of knowledge in books.

A broken friendship may be soldered but will never be sound.
Friendships can be rebuilt after a dispute but will never be as strong as before.

A burden of one's own choice is not felt.
Something difficult seems easier when it is done voluntarily.

A burnt child dreads the fire.
A bad experience will make people stay away from certain things..

A calm sea does not make a skilled sailor.
A person shows their competence or ability when difficulties arise.

A cat has nine lives.
1) Cats can survive many accidents because they land on their feet without injury.
2) Nine lives = 3 years to play, 3 years to stray, 3 years to stay.

A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
The strength of a group depends on each individual member.

A change is as good as a rest.
A change in routine is often as refreshing as a break or a holiday.

A constant guest is never welcome.
If you come to visit too often, your host will be less pleased to see you.

A danger foreseen is half avoided.
If you are prepared to face a problem or difficulty, it will be easier to deal with.

A day of sorrow is longer than a month of joy.
Times goes by very quickly when you are happy and very slowly when you are sad.

A drop of ink may make a million think.
A thought expressed in writing (perhaps published in a newspaper) can influence a large number of people.

A dry March, a wet April and a cool May fill barn and cellar and bring much hay.
Harvest predictions are made according to the weather.

A fault confessed is half redressed.
A fault confessed is half redressed.

A flower blooms more than once.
If you miss an occasion, you can avail yourself of it another time.


Bad beginnings lead to bad results.
If you start something badly the result will be unsatisfactory.

(A) bad cause requires many words.
It is difficult to defend a bad cause.

(A) bad excuse is better than none.
Always give an excuse when necessary, even if it's a poor one.

Bad news travels fast.
People tend to circulate bad news very quickly (accidents, illness, etc.).

(A) bad penny always turns up.
An unwanted or disreputable person constantly comes back.

(A) bad tree does not yield good apples.
A bad parent does not raise good children.

(A) bad workman blames his tools.
Blaming tools for bad workmanship is an excuse for lack of skill.

(A) barking dog seldom bites.
Someone who constantly makes threats rarely carries them out.

Be just before you are generous.
Make sure all your debts are paid before you start offering help to others.

Beauty is only skin deep.
A person's character is more important than their appearance.

Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
Different people have different tastes.

Beauty is the wisdom of women. Wisdom is the beauty of men.
No comment!

Be swift to hear, slow to speak.
Listen carefully before speaking.

(The) best advice is found on the pillow.
A good night's sleep may help us find an answer to our problem.

(The) best helping hand is at the end of your sleeve.
The best way to get something done is to do it yourself.

(The) best things in life are free.
You don't have to pay for what is important: happiness, friendship, good health.

Better brain than brawn.  
It's better to have a brain than muscles.

Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
It is preferable to have something sure now than the possibility of something better later.

(A) calm sea does not make a skilled sailor.
A person shows their competence or ability when difficulties arise.

Care is no cure
Worrying about something does not solve the problem.

(A) cat has nine lives.
1) Cats can survive many accidents because they land on their feet without injury.
2) Nine lives = 3 years to play, 3 years to stray, 3 years to stay.

(A) chain is no stronger than its  weakest link.
The strength of a group depends on each individual member.

(A) change is as good as a rest.
A change in routine is often as refreshing as a break or a holiday.

Charity begins at home.
A person's first duty is to help and care for his own family.

Children are certain cares but uncertain comforts
Children are bound to cause anxiety but do not always bring joy.

Children and fools tell the truth.
Neither children nor fools know that it is sometimes advantageous to lie.

Cleanliness is next to godliness.
A clean body is just as important as a pure soul.

Clear moon, frost soon.
If the atmosphere is clear, frost may form.

(A) closed mouth catches no flies.
If you learn when to keep silent you will avoid trouble.

Clothes don't make the man.
Appearances can be deceiving.

(A) constant guest is never welcome.
If you come to visit too often, your host will be less pleased to see you.

Constant occupation prevents temptation.
When you are busy working, you avoid temptation.

Courtesy is contagious
If you are polite to other people, they will be polite to you.

Cross the stream where it is shallowest
Always do something the easiest possible way.

Crosses are ladders that lead to heaven
Suffering and misfortune often show the best in a person's character.

No cure no pay
If the results promised are not produced, there will be no payment.

(A) danger foreseen is half avoided.
If you are prepared to face a problem or difficulty, it will be easier to deal with.

(The) darkest hour is just before dawn.
The most difficult moment is just before a problem is solved.

(A) day of sorrow is longer than a month of joy.
Times goes by very quickly when you are happy and very slowly when you are sad.

Dead men tell no lies.
A dead person cannot cause difficulties by revealing something that it would be preferable to conceal.

Death is the great leveller.
All people are equal when they die.

(The) devil looks after his own.
Success comes to those who deserve it least.

(The) devil makes work for idle hands.
People who have no work, or are idle, often get into trouble.

Diamonds cut diamonds.
Refers to two people equally matched in wit or cunning.

(The) die is cast.
A decision has been made and it is impossible to change it.

Diligence is the mother of good fortune.
Hard work brings rewards.

Discretion is the better part of valour.
It is sometimes better to avoid a dangerous situation than to confront it.

Diseases of the soul are more dangerous than those of the body.
Thought to refer to mental and emotional disorder or spiritual torment as opposed to bodily pain.

Distance makes the heart grow fonder.
When you are separated from the person you love, your feelings are even stronger.

Dogs of the same street bark alike.
People of the same background have the same behaviour.

Don't bark if you can't bite.
Don't complain if you can't enforce your point of view.

Don't count your chickens before they're hatched.
You must not be too confident that something will be successful.

Don't dig your grave with your own knife and fork.
Don't do something yourself that causes your own downfall.

Don't judge a book by its cover.
Don't judge by appearances.

(A) drop of ink may make a million think.
A thought expressed in writing (for example, published in a newspaper) can influence a large number of people.

(A) dry March, a wet April and a cool May may fill barn and cellar and bring much hay.
Harvest predictions according to the weather.

Early to bed, and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise.
It is much better for you to go to bed early and to get up early in the morning;

(The) early bird catches the worm.
Act early, or before anyone else, if you want to have an advantage or be successful.

Easier said than done.
What is suggested sounds easy, but it is more difficult to actually do it.

Elbow grease is the best polish.
Hard work produces the best results.

Empty vessels make the most noise.
The least intelligent people are often the most talkative or noisy.

(An) empty purse frightens away friends.
When one's financial situation deteriorates, friends tend to disappear.

(The) end justifies the means.
Wrong or unfair methods may be used if the result of the action is good.

(An) Englishman's  home is his castle.
An Englishman's home is a place where he feels safe, enjoys privacy and can do as he wishes.

Enough is as good as a feast.
A moderate amount is sufficient.

Even a worm will turn.
Even someone who never complains will react to an intolerable situation.

Every ass likes to hear himself bray.
People like to listen to themselves talking.

Every cloud has a silver lining.
There is a positive or hopeful side to every situation.

Every man for himself.
You must think of your own interests before the interests of others.

Every man has his price.
Everyone's loyalty can be bought for a price.

Every man is the architect of his own fortune.
Life is what you make it.

Every man thinks his own geese swans.
Everyone tends to rate their own children, possessions or achievements more highly than others do.

Every path has its puddle.
Progress is rarely without difficulty.

Every rose has its thorn.
Every good thing has an unpleasant side.

Every why has a wherefore.
There is an explanation for everything.

Everything in the garden is rosy.
Everything is satisfactory.

Experience is the father of wisdom.
Experience and knowledge result in better judgement.

Facts speak louder than words.
People show what they are really like by what they do, rather than by what they say.

Failure teaches success.
People can learn from their failures and be successful later on.

Fair exchange is no robbery.
Swapping two items of equal value is an honest deal. re

False friends are worse than open enemies.
It's better to know who your real enemies are rather than trust someone who pretends to be a friend but is capable of stabbing you in the back.

Familiarity breeds contempt.
Knowing someone very well can lead to a lack of respect for them.

(A) fault confessed is half redressed.
Confession is the beginning of forgiveness.

Fear lends wings
Fear makes you do things faster than would normally seem possible.

Fine words butter no parsnips.
No amount of talking can replace action.

First come, first served.
The first person in the line will be attended to first.

(The) first step is the hardest.
The most difficult part of an action is the beginning.

(A) flower blooms more than once.
If you miss an occasion, you can avail yourself of it another time.

(A) fly will not get into a closed mouth.
If you learn when to keep silent you will avoid trouble.

(A) fool and his money are (soon) easily parted.
A foolish person often spends money carelessly.

(A) fool at forty is a fool forever.
If a person hasn't matured by the age of 40, they never will.

Fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, shame on me.
One should learn from one's mistakes.

Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
Inexperienced people become involved in situations that more intelligent people would avoid.

Forbidden fruit is sweet.
What you cannot have is what is always the most desirable.

(A) friend in need is a friend indeed.
Someone who helps you when you are in trouble is a real friend.

(A) friend to all is a friend to none.
Someone who is a friend to everyone makes none of them feel special.

(A) friend's eye is a good mirror.
A real friend will tell you the truth.

Friendship is like money, easier made than kept.
Effort is necessary to keep a friendship alive.

Friendship is love with understanding.
A friend is more tolerant than a lover/partner/spouse?

Gardens are not made by sitting in the shade.
Nothing is achieved without effort.

Give someone an inch and they will take a mile (or yard)
Give someone a little and they will want more - some people are never satisfied.

Give someone enough rope and they will hang themselves.
Give someone enough time and freedom and they will get into trouble.

God helps those who help themselves.
Success comes to those who make a real effort to achieve it.

Good accounting makes good friends.
You will keep your friends if you avoid disputes over money.

Good and quickly seldom meet.
A well-done job takes time.

(A) good beginning makes a good end.
If a task is carefully planned, there's a better chance that it will be well done.

(A) good conscience is a soft pillow.


(A) good mind possesses a kingdom.
Intellectual assets are more valuable than material ones.

(A) good name is better than a good face.
A good reputation is better than a good appearance.

Good management is better than good income.
Income can be lost if it is used carelessly.

Grasp all, lose all.
Trying to obtain everything will often result in gaining nothing.

Great minds think alike.
Intelligent people very often have the same idea at the same time.

Great oaks grow from small acorns.
Large successful operations can begin in a small way.

Grief divided is made lighter.
If you share your grief, it will be easier to bear.

(A) growing youth has a wolf in his belly.
Young boys eat a lot / are often hungry.

(A) guilty conscience needs no accuser.
If you know that you have done something wrong, you don't need anyone to tell you that you're guilty.

Half a loaf is better than none
You should be grateful for something, even if it is not as much as you wanted.

(A) handful of patience is worth more than a bushel of brains.
Patience is more precious than intelligence.

Handsome is what handsome does.
Behaviour is more important than appearance.

(A) happy heart is better than a full purse.
Happiness is better than wealth.

Hard words break no bones.
Criticism or verbal attacks may be unpleasant but will not kill anyone.

Haste makes waste
If something is done too quickly, it may be done carelessly and need to be redone.

Hatred is as blind as love.
A person who feels hatred does not see any qualities in the person he/she hates.

(A) heavy purse gives to a light heart.
When you have money you feel more cheerful and secure.

(A) hedge between keeps friendship green.
It is important to respect the privacy of others.

He can who believes he can.
If you believe you can do something, you will be able to do it.

He has enough who is content.
A happy person needs nothing more.

He who digs a pit for others falls into it himself.
If you do harm to others you will get harmed yourself.

He who hesitates is lost.
If you delay your decision too long, you may miss a good opportunity.

He who is everywhere is nowhere.
It's not good to do too many things at the same time.

He who knows nothing doubts nothing.
People who are uninformed have no doubts. Knowledge leads us to make choices.



He who pays the piper calls the tune.
The person who provides the money for something should control how it is spent.

He who plays with fire gets burnt.
If you behave in a risky way, you are likely to have problems.

He who wills the end wills the means.
If you are determined to do something you will find a way.

He laughs best who laughs last.
Don't express your joy, or triumph, too soon.

Health is better than wealth.
It's better to be in good health than to be rich.

(The best) helping hand is at the end of your sleeve.
The best way to get something done is to do it yourself.

Home is where the heart is.
You call home the place where the people you love are.

Honesty is the best policy.
It's always better to be honest.

Honey catches more flies than vinegar.
You can obtain more cooperation from others by being nice.

However long the night, the dawn will break.
Bad things don't last forever.

Hunger is a good sauce.
All food tastes good when you are hungry.

(A) hungry belly has no ears.
A hungry person is totally concentrated on their need for food and nothing else interests them.

(A) hungry wolf is fixed to no place.
A desperate person will go from place to place when they need to satisfy their needs.

(An) idle brain is the devil's workshop.
When you are busy working you avoid temptation.

In times of prosperity friends are plentiful.
You have many friends when you have no difficulties.

If a camel gets his nose in a tent, his body will follow.
If you let something intrusive enter your life, your life will become difficult.

If in February there be no rain, 'tis neither good for hay nor grain.
Plants and grains will grow badly if there is no rain in early spring.

If you are patient in one moment of anger, you will avoid 100 days of sorrow.
Avoid regrets by taking the time to think before speaking or acting angrily.

If you chase two rabbits, you will not catch either one.
If you try to do two things at the same time, you will not succeed in doing either of them.

If two ride a horse, one must ride behind.
When two people do something together, one will be the leader and the other will be the subordinate.

If you want a friend, be a friend.
Friendship must be reciprocal.

If wishes were horses, then beggars would ride.
If just wishing for something were enough to make it happen, then even the poorest of people would have everything they wanted. Wishing alone is not sufficient; you must act as well.

Ignorance is bliss.
What you do not know causes no worry or sadness. It is sometimes better not to know all the facts.

In for a penny, in for a pound.
If you start something, it is better to spend the time or money necessary to complete it.

In the land of the blind the one-eyed man is king.
A man of even limited ability has an advantage over a person who is less able.

It never rains but it pours.
Misfortune usually comes in large numbers.

It is always darkest before the dawn.
The most difficult time is just before the problem is solved.

It's no use crying over spilt milk.
Don't express regret for something that has happened and cannot be remedied.

It takes all sorts to make a world.
People vary in character and abilities, and this is a good thing.

(A) Jack of all trades is master of none.
A person who can do many different things is not expected to be particularly good at any one of them.

(A) journey of a thousand miles starts with a single step
Daunting tasks are more manageable if broken up into smaller tasks accomplished step by step.

Justice delayed is justice denied.
If the law is applied too late, there is no justice.

Kill one to warn a hundred.
Warn many people by punishing a few.

Kill not the goose that lays the golden egg.
Do not destroy the source of your good fortune.

Kindle not a fire you cannot put out.
Do not start something that you cannot control; you may fail or cause damage.

Kindness begets kindness.
If you are kind to someone, they will return your kindness.

Kindness, like a boomerang, always returns.
If you are kind to others, and serve as an example, you will receive kindness in return.

Knowledge in youth is wisdom in age.
What you learn when you are young will be invaluable when your grow old.

Knowledge is power.
The more knowledge or education you have, the better your chances are of being successful in life.

Laughter is the best medicine.
Laughter makes people feel good.

Learn to walk before you run.
Don't rush into doing something before you know how to do it.

Learning is a treasure that will follow its owner everywhere.
Education is something that you keep forever.

Least said, soonest mended.
The less you talk about an incident, the more easily it will be forgotten.

(A) lender nor borrower be.
Do not lend or borrow money.

(A) leopard cannot change its spots.
It is impossible for a bad or unpleasant person to become good or pleasant.

Let bygones be bygones.
Let's forgive and forget past quarrels.

Let the chips fall where they may.
We should not try to control our destiny.

Liars need good memories.
People who do not tell the truth must be careful to remember what they say.

Liberty is not licence (us: license)
Freedom does not mean that people can do whatever they like.

A lie begets a lie.
Telling one lie will lead you to tell another one.

Telling one lie will lead you to tell another one.
An unusual event is not likely to occur again in exactly the same circumstances.

Like father, like son.
A son's character can be expected to resemble his father's.

(A) little fire is quickly trodden out.
If you deal with a minor problem quickly, it will not become a major issue.

(A) little of what you fancy does you good.
It's ok to give into a little temptation occasionally.

Little strokes fell good oaks.
If you divide a task into small parts, it become easier to do.

(A) loaded wagon makes no noise.
Really wealthy people do not talk about money.

Look before you leap.
Consider possible consequences before taking action.

Loose lips sink ships.
Disclosing important information (to the enemy or a competitor) could result in large losses.

Losers weepers, finders keepers.
If you lose something you lament, if you find something you keep it.

Love is blind.
A person in love does not see the faults of the person he/she loves.

(A) loveless life is a living death.
Without affection, life is difficult.

Make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
Manage to produce something good using poor material.

Man is the head of the family and woman is the neck that turns the head.
Men's actions are guided by their wives.

Man proposes, God disposes.
Our destiny depends on God's will.

(A) man can die but once.
If death comes now, you will not have to experience it later.

(A) man is as old as he feels himself to be.
Your age doesn't matter as long as you are fit and healthy.

(A) man is judged by his deeds, not by his words.
A person is judged on what he/she actually does, not on what they say they will do.

(A) man is known by the company he keeps.
A person's character is judged by the type of people with whom they spend their time.

Manners make the man.
A person's manners reveal their origins.

Many a true word is spoken in jest.
Even if something is said as a joke it can still be true.

Many hands make light work.
Sharing work makes the task easier.

March comes in like a lion and goes out like a lamb.
The weather at the beginning of March is stormy and at the end is mild.

March winds and April showers bring forth May flowers.
The storms and rain in March and April produce flowers in the month of May.



Mark, learn and inwardly digest.
Note and reflect upon something in order to thoroughly assimilate it.

Marry in haste, repent as leisure.
If you get married too quickly, you may spend your whole life regretting it.

Memory is the treasure of the mind.
A good memory is very precious.

Men make houses, women make homes.
Women give a house its comfort and character.

Might as well be hanged for a sheep as (for) a lamb.
If the penalty is going to be same, you might as well commit the greater offence.

Misery loves company
When people are sad they often like others to feel sad too.

Money begets money.
If you have money you can make more money.

Money doesn't grow on trees.
You should not waste money because it is not plentiful or obtained easily.

Monkey see, monkey do
Foolish people copy others.

(A) monkey in silk is a monkey no less.
No matter how someone dresses, it's the same person underneath.

(The) more haste, the less speed.
A person makes more progress if they take time to do things carefully.

(The) more you have, the more you want.
People have a constant desire to possess more.

(The) mouse that has but one hole is quickly taken.
If you depend on just one thing, and it fails, you have no alternatives.

Necessity is the mother of invention.
The need for something forces people to find a way of obtaining it.

Necessity knows no law
Being desperate may lead you to do illegal things.

Need teaches a plan.
Necessity will make you find a solution.

Needs must when the devil drives.
Sometimes you are compelled to do something that you would rather not do.

Never put off till tomorrow what can be done today.
Don't postpone until later something you can do now.

Never say die.
Never give up.

Never trouble troubles until troubles trouble you.
Don't look for problems in advance; deal with them when they arise.

(A) new broom sweeps clean (but the old brush knows all the corners...)
A newly-appointed person often makes changes quickly (but experience is also valuable).

(A) nod is as good as a wink (to a blind horse / man).
A hint or a subtle signal is enough to convey meaning to someone who is ready to understand.

Nobody is perfect.
It is understandable not to be perfect or to make occasional mistakes.

No joy without annoy.
There is no happiness without clouds.

No losers, no winners.
If there were no losers, there could be no winners.

No man can serve two masters.
It's impossible to follow instructions from two different sources.

No man is a hero to his valet.
Few people are admired by those who know them intimately and are aware of their failings.

No man is an island.
People are all interdependent and need each other.

No news is good news.
If the news was bad, we would hear of it. Since we have heard nothing, we can assume that all is well.

No pain, no gain.
Nothing is achieved without effort.

No rain, no grain.
Without rain the harvest will be poor.

No smoke without fire.
There could be some truth in the rumour ...

No wind, no waves.
Similar to 'no smoke without fire'.

Nothing ventured nothing gained.
You cannot expect to achieve anything if you take no risks.

Oil and water do not mix
Some people or things are incompatible by nature.

(An) old fox is not easily snared.
A person of experience is difficult to fool or manipulate.

Once bitten, twice shy.
After an unpleasant experience, people are careful to avoid something similar.

One father is (worth) more than a hundred schoolmasters.
A teacher cannot replace a father. A child is raised by a father and taught by a teacher.

One good turn deserves another.
You should be helpful to someone who helps you.

One of these days is none of these days.
Until a date is set, 'one of these days' remains a vague promise.

One today is worth two tomorrows.
What you have today is better than what is promised or hoped for.

One man's meat is another man's poison.
People don't always like the same things.

One man's trash is another man's treasure.
What is useless to one person could be valuable to another.

One swallow doesn't make a summer.
A single satisfactory event does not mean that all the others will be as good.

(An) onion a day keeps everyone away.
A humoristic version of "an apple a day..."

Only real friends will tell you when  your face is dirty.
Only a real friend will tell you the truth.

Opportunity seldom knocks twice.
Don't miss opportunities that come along.

(An) ounce of discretion is worth a pound of wit.
It is better to be cautious and discreet than to try to be funny.

(An) ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
It is easier to prevent something from happening than to repair the damage or cure the disease later.

Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings.
Children often speak wisely.

Out of sight, out of mind.
We tend to forget people or things that we do not see.

Parents are patterns
Parents are role models for their children and should therefore set a good example.

(The) pen is mightier than the sword.
Words and communication have a greater effect than war and fighting.

Penny wise, pound foolish.
Refers to a person who is careful about spending small amounts of money, but not careful about spending large amounts.

People who live in glass houses should not throw stones.
One should not criticize others for faults similar to one's own and risk retaliation. re

(A) picture paints a thousand words.
A picture is better than a long description.

Pity is akin to love.
If you begin to feel sorry for someone, you may start to love them.

Poverty waits at the gates of idleness.
If you do not work, you will not earn any money.

Practice makes perfect.
Doing something repeatedly is the only way to become good at it.

Prevention is better than cure.
It is easier to prevent something from happening than to repair the damage or cure the disease later.

Pride comes before a fall.
Don't be too self-confident or proud; something may happen to make you look foolish.

(A) problem shared is a problem halved.
It is easier to deal with a problem when you discuss it with someone.

Procrastination is the thief of time.
Delaying an action for too long is a waste of time.

(The) proof of the pudding is in the eating.
The real value of something can be judged only after it has been tried or tested.

Punctuality is the soul of business.
You should always be on time for your business appointments.

Put all your eggs in one basket.
Risk everything by relying on one plan (e.g. by putting all one's money into one business).

(All) roads lead to Rome
An objective can be achieved in different ways.

Rats desert a sinking ship
People abandon a failing enterprise when problems develop.

Reason does not come before years.
Wisdom and maturity come with age. Young people lack common sense.

Respect is greater from a distance.
A person who keeps themselves apart from others is more likely to be respected.

Revenge is a dish best served cold
Vengeance is often more satisfying if it is exacted after time has passed.

Revenge is sweet.
There is satisfaction in returning an injury.

(A) rising tide lifts all boats.
A growing economy will lead to beneficial conditions for all.

(The) road to hell is paved with good intentions.
It is not enough to intend to do something, you must actually do it.

(A) rolling stone gathers no moss
If a person keeps moving from place to place, they gain neither friends nor possessions.
Another interpretation is that, by moving often, one avoids being tied down!

Rome was not built in a day.
It takes time to a job properly. You should not expect to do it quickly.

(A) rotten apple spoils the barrel.
A dishonest or immoral person can have a bad influence on a group.

Safe bind, safe find
If you fasten something securely or lock it up safely, it will still be there when you return.

Save me from my friends
Friends can sometimes be more dangerous than enemies.

Saying is one thing, doing is another.
People don't always do what they announce.

Short reckonings make long friends.
Debts paid quickly encourage friendship.

Sickness in the body brings sadness to the mind.
Physical suffering can lead to sadness or depression.

Silence gives consent.
If you don't object to something, it is assumed that you agree with it.

(A) soft answer turneth away wrath.
If your reply is polite and tactful you will avoid anger.

(A) smooth sea never made a skilled mariner.
Overcoming adversity leads to competence.

Snug as a bug in a rug.
Feeling very comfortable.

Spare the rod and spoil the child.
If you don't punish a child when he does wrong, you will spoil his character.

Speech is silver, silence is golden.
Speaking is good, but discretion can be better.

Sticks and stones will break my bones but names will never hurt me.
Physical attacks may harm me, but cruel words will  not.

Still waters run deep.
A quiet person with a calm outward appearance can have much knowledge or wisdom.

(A) stitch in time saves nine.
It's better to deal with a problem at an early stage so as to prevent it from getting worse.

Stolen fruit is sweet / the sweetest.
Stolen pleasures are the sweetest.
What is forbidden is the most tempting.

(A) stumble may prevent a fall.
Correcting a small mistake may help you to avoid making a bigger one.

(One) swallow does not make the summer.
One good event does not mean that everything is alright.

Tall oaks grow from little acorns.
Great things may come from small beginnings.

The apple doesn't fall far from the tree.
Children resemble their parents.

The best advice is found on the pillow.
A good night's sleep may help us find an answer to our problem.re

The best things in life are free.
You don't have to pay for what is important: happiness, friendship, good health.

The darkest hour is just before dawn.
The most difficult moment is just before a problem is solved.

The devil looks after his own.
Success comes to those who deserve it least.

The devil makes work for idle hands.
People who have no work, or who are idle, often get into trouble.

The die is cast.
A decision has been made and it is impossible to change it.

The early bird catches the worm.
Act early, or before anyone else, if you want to have an advantage or be successful.

The end justifies the means.
Wrong or unfair methods may be used if the result of the action is good.

The first step is the hardest.
The most difficult part of an action is the beginning.

The more haste, the less speed.
A person makes more progress if they take time to do things carefully.

The more you have, the more you want.
People have a constant desire to possess more.

The mouse that has but one hole is quickly taken.
If you depend on just one thing, and it fails, you have no alternatives.

The pen is mightier than the sword.
Words and communication have a greater effect than war and fighting.

The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
The real value of something can be judged only after it has been tried or tested.

The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
It is not enough to intend to do something, you must actually do it.

The tongue wounds more than a lance.
Insults can be more hurtful than physical injuries.

The truth is in the wine.
People speak more freely under the influence of alcohol.

The way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
Feed a man well and he will love you.

Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown
Those in power have a lot of responsibility and can never rest easy.

Union is strength
A group has more force than an individual.

United we stand, divided we fall
People who join forces are more difficult to defeat than they would be separately.

Unwillingness easily finds an excuse.
A person who doesn't want to do something always finds a reason to avoid it.

(The) used key is always bright
Activity, work and exercise are good for the body.

Use it or lose it
Skills or knowledge that are not used may be lost over time.

Variety is the spice of life.
Doing a lot of different things makes life more interesting.

Virtue is its own reward.
You should not expect praise for acting in a correct or moral way.

Vision without action is a daydream. Action without vision is a nightmare.
If you have good ideas but don’t act on them, you are just daydreaming.
If you act without thinking, you may end up in trouble.

Walls have ears.
Be careful. People could be listening.

Waste not, want not.
If you never waste anything, you will have is when you need it.

(A) watched pot never boils.
If you wait anxiously for something to happen, it seems to take a long time.

(The) way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
Feed a man well and he will love you.

What the eye doesn't see, the heart doesn't grieve over.
If a person doesn't know about something, it cannot hurt them.

What a man says drunk, he thinks sober.
People speak more freely under the influence of alcohol.

What soberness conceals, drunkenness reveals.
People are less discreet under the influence of alcohol.

When the cat's away, the mice play.
People sometimes misbehave when the person in authority, is absent.

When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
You should adopt the customs of the people or country you are visiting and behave in the same way.

When poverty comes in the door, love goes out the window.
When a couple loses everything, their relationship becomes difficult.

Where there's life there's hope.
As long as a person is breathing, there is hope for recovery.

Where there's a will there's a way.
If you are determined to do something, you will find a way to do it.

Who makes himself a sheep will be eaten by the wolves.
Possible interpretation: an easily influenced person can be mislead.

(A) wise head keeps a still tongue
An intelligent person knows when to stay silent.

Wisdom is better than strength.
It is preferable to use one's intelligence than one's physical strength.

(The) wish is father to the thought.
You think that something is true because you want it to be so.

(Two) wrongs don't make a right.
It is wrong to harm someone because they have harmed you.

(A) wonder lasts but nine days
The effects of an amazing or stirring event last only nine days; after that, life goes on as before.

Worry often gives a small thing a big shadow
We often worry unnecessarily about small things. The more we worry, the more important they appear.

You are what you eat.
What you eat has an effect on your well-being.

You are never too old to learn.
You can always learn something new, no matter how old you are.

You can lead a horse to water but you can't make it drink.
You can offer somebody an opportunity to do something but you can't force them to do it.

You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
A person who is used to doing things a certain way cannot change.

You never know what you can do until you try.
Try first before deciding not to do something.

You scratch my back and I'll scratch yours.
You help me and I'll help you.

(A) young idler, an old beggar.
If you don't work, you won't have any money when you're old.
