#https://www.learn-english-today.com/phrasal-verbs/phrasal-verb-list.html

abide by
Respect or obey (the law, a decision, a rule...).
"If you want to stay at this school, you must abide by the rules."

account for
Give a reason or an explanation.
"I hope you can account for all the money you spent!"

ache for
Want someone or something very much.
"He was so lonely he ached for the sound of a human voice."

act on
Take action as a result of something.
"The police decided to act on the anonymous call they received."

act out
Demonstrate something with gestures and actions.
"The children acted out the scene in the classroom."

act up
Cause pain or annoyance by functioning badly.
Dad's poor knee is acting up again."

add up
Make sense; seem reasonable.
"She explained what happened but the details she gave just don't add up."

adhere to
Support;  follow;  act in accordance with.
"All contestants must adhere to the rules."

advise against
Recommend not  to do something.
The doctor advised him against carrying heavy loads.

agree with
Have the same opinion as some else.
"I agree with you. I think she deserves the award too."

aim at
Direct towards a target.
"The policeman aimed his gun at the hijacker."

allow for
Take into consideration;  include in a calculation.
"It will take longer. You have to allow for heavy traffic at rush hour."
"We must allow for food expenses too. Let's add 20€ per person."

allude to
Mention or make reference to something in an indirect way.
"I don't understand. What problem is she alluding to?"



amount to
Reach; be equivalent to.
"The total repair work will amount to 1200€.
"His statement amounted to a confession."

angle for
Try to obtain somethiing by hinting or suggesting.
"From the way he's speaking I suspect Tom is angling for a free ticket."

answer back
Reply rudely to someone in authority when you are expected to remain silent.
"I'm your teacher. Don't answer back !"

answer for
Be held responsible for something.
"Normally parents have to answer for their children's behaviour."

Speak on behalf of someone.
"I agree to your proposal, but I can't answer for my associate."

answer to
Be responsible to/be controlled by (someone)
"Who do you answer to in your job?"

appeal to
Plead or make an earnest request.
"The organisers appealed to the crowd to stay calm."

Be attractive or interesting.
"The idea of camping in the woods doesn't appeal to me at all." 

apply for
Make a formal request for something (job, permit, loan, etc.)
"When he saw the advertisement he decided to apply for the job."

arrive at
Reach (an agreement, a decision, a conclusion)
"It is hoped that they will arrive at an agreement at the end of the meeting."

ask after
Enquire about someone's well-being.
"My mother is always asking after you."

ask around
Mention it to people you see or meet.
"I'll ask around and see if anyone has seen your cat."

ask in
Invite someone to come inside.
"I couldn't leave her standing outside in the cold so I asked her in."

ask out
Invite someone to lunch, dinner, the cinema ...
"John has asked Mary out several times."

attest to
Prove to be true; bear witness to
"The number of visitors attest to the popularity of the website."

avail (oneself) of
Take advantage of something (an opportunity)
"When the sales begin you should avail yourself of the opportunity and buy that coat."

average out at
Result in an average(amount)
"The price of lunch averages out at 10€ per person."

back away
Move backwards, in fear or dislike
"When he saw the dog, he backed away."

back down
Withdraw; concede defeat
"Local authorities backed down on their plans to demolish the cinema."

back down
Stop defending your opinion
"Jenny never backs down. She loves debating and usually wins."

back into
Reverse a vehicle into a space
"Tom backed his car into a parking space."

back into
Hit something when reversing a vehicle
"Lisa backed into the fire hydrant that she couldn’t see in the rear view mirror."

back off
Retreat; abandon an intention; become less aggressive
"The thugs backed off when they saw the police."

back onto
Reverse a vehicle onto something
"Jack backed the van onto the gravel path."

back onto
Overlook something from the back.
"They have a beautiful house that backs onto the beach."

back out
Not keep a promise; decide not to do something agreed on
"You promised to help. Please don't back out now!"

back out of
Withdraw from an agreement
"He backed out of the Paris agreement."

back out of
Drive out of a place in reverse gear.
"She backed the car out of the garage."

back up
Give support or encouragement
"If I tell the boss we've got too much work, will you back me up? "

back up
Make a copy of (file, document, program...) for security purposes.
"It is recommended to back up all files for safety."

bail out
Pay money to secure someone's release from jail.
"When he was arrested his family refused to bail him out."

bail out
Rescue from financial difficulties.
"The government bailed out the bank."

band together
Unite in a group.
"Consumers banded together to protest against the measures."

bank on
Base your hopes on something/someone.
"Don't forget the date. I'm banking on your help."

bargain for
Expect; be prepared for.
"The interview was more difficult than he had bargained for."

bear out
Confirm.
"The other witnesses will bear out my testimony."

bear with
Be patient.
"Please bear with me please while I finish my explanation."

beef up
Improve or make more substantial.
"He beefed up his presentation with diagrams and statistics."

black out
Faint; lose consciousness.
"When he fell off the horse, he blacked out."

block off
Separate using a barrier.
"The area was blocked off during the demonstration."

blow up
Be destroyed by an explosion.
"The car blew up but luckily there was nobody in it."



bog down
Get caught up in something and be unable to make progress.
"Try not to get bogged down with/in unimportant details."

boil down to
Be reduced to the main reason or the essential part.
"The problem boils down to a lack of money."

boot up
Start a computer by loading an operating system or program.
"Just give me a few minutes to boot up the computer."

break away
Escape from captivity.
"The horses were enclosed in a paddock but a few of them managed to break away."

break away from
Leave and become independent.
"He broke away from the organisation and set up his own agency."

break down
Go out of order; stop functioning.
"John's car broke down on the way to the airport."

Lose control of one's emotions.
"The parents broke down when they heard the news."

break something down
Divide into smaller or simpler parts.
"The lesson will be easier to learn if you break it down into small sections."

break free
Detach from a physical hold.
"He broke free from his attacker's grasp."

break in/into
Enter by force in order to steal something.
"I saw a man outside the shop trying to break in.
"The burglars broke into the house around midnight."

break in on
Interrupt unexpectedly.
"An operator  suddenly broke in on our telephone conversation."

break off
Stop, disdiscontinue.
"It has been decided to break off diplomatic relations with that country."

Stop speaking.
"She broke off in the middle of a sentence."

break out
Start suddenly or erupt.
"Rioting broke out as a result of the strike."
"He was in such a nervous state that sweat started to break out on his forehead."

break out of
Escape from captivity by force.
"Three prisoners broke out of the central prison last night."

break through
Force a way through something.
"The car broke through the barrier set up by the police."

break up
Come to an end (marriage, a relationship ...).
"After her marriage broke up, Caroline went to live in London."

Separate into small pieces.
"Pablo had to use a fork to break up the soil."

break with
Discontinue something or do something in a different way.
"He broke with tradition and invented new methods."

bring about
Cause something to happen.
"The arrival of electricity in rural areas brought about a huge change."

bring off
Succeed in doing something difficult.
"You pretended to be a journalist and he believed you? I never thought you'd bring it off!"

bring up
Raise (a child).
"She stopped working for a few years in order to bring up her children."

Mention something.
"His friends knew he had lost his job but they decided not to bring up the subject."

brush up on
Improve; refresh one's knowledge of something.
Mary decided to brush up on her Spanish before going to South America."

bump into
Meet by accident or unexpectedly.
"Rafael bumped into his English teacher at the supermarket."

burn out
Stop (something) working.
"These electric bulbs seem to burn out more quickly than the old ones."
"The lawn mower has broken down. I think the motor has burnt out."

Become exhausted from too much work or stress.
"Tom will burn himself out if he doesn't slow down and stop working such long hours.."

butt in (on)
Interrupt impolitely.
"It's rude to butt in on a conversation."

call after
Give a child the same name as someone else.
"His name is Charles. He's called after his grandfather."

call at
Stop at a place briefly (harbour, port, station...)
"The train calls at Newbridge and Glenville on the way to the capital."

call back
Return a phone call.
"I'll call you back as soon as possible."

call for
Go somewhere to get someone.
"I'll call for you at 8 o'clock. Make sure you're ready!"

Demand that something be done.
"The opposition has called for an investigation into the misuse of public funds."

Be required or necessary.
"The job calls for excellent computer skills."

Be an appropriate occasion for something.
"The happy announcement calls for champagne."

call forth
Produce a reaction or result; evoke.
"The politician's statement called forth a hostile reaction from the crowd."
"That song calls forth sad memories."

call in
Make a telephone call to a place.
"Caroline called in to say that her plane had been delayed and that she would arrive late."

Ask someone to come and do a job.
"The dishwasher has stopped working. I don't know whether to call in an electrician or a plumber."

call in (on)
Stop and pay a visit to someone.
"I'm going to call in on my parents on my way home from work this evening."

call off
Cancel.
"The meeting was called off because of the strike."

call on/upon
Formally request or invite.
"I now call upon the President to address the assembly."

call out
Shout something.
"The  child disappeared from the playground. His mother called out his name but he didn't answer."

call round
Go to a place to see someone.
"The nurse said she would call round this afternoon to check on my mother."

call up
Phone someone.
"The secretary called up all the area manageres to arrange a meeting."

Summon someone for military service.
"My father was called up to active duty as soon as the war broke out."

calm down
Become more relaxed or less angry/upset.
"He was angry at first, but he eventually calmed down."

carry on
Continue.
"Charlie carried on gardening in spite of the rain."

carry out
Do something as specified (plan, order, threat...)
"The plan was carried out to perfection."

Perform or conduct (test, experiment ...)
"Tests are carried out to determine the efficiency of a new drug."

carry over
Postpone until later.
"As regards holidays, can we carry over days from one year to the next?"



catch up on
Acquire information you have missed.
"I must call my mother to catch up on the latest family events."

catch up with
Reach the same stage as someone else.
"I've missed some classes so I'll have to work hard to catch up with the others."

check in
Register at a hotel or an airport.
"For security reasons, you have to check in two hours before your flight."

check out
Pay one's bill and leave (a hotel)
"Is Mr. Brown still at the hotel? No, he checked out this morning.

Investigate or verify something.
"I don't know if the address is still valid. I'll check it out. "

cheer up
Put someone in a better mood.
"I told her a joke to try and cheer her up.

chip in
Contribute to or participate in something done by a group.
"Bob has decided to retire and we're going to buy him a present. Do you want to chip in? "

clam up
Refuse to speak.
"When the police arrived, the boy clammed up."

clamp down on
Act strictly to prevent something.
"The government decided to clamp down on smoking in public areas. "

close down
Stop operating (company, restaurant, cinema ...)
"When the factory closed down, the employees lost their jobs."

come about
Happen or occur.
"How did such a complicated situation come about?"

come across
Find by chance, encounter.
"Julie came across some photographs of her grandparents in the attic."

Appear, seem, make an impression.
"The candidate came across as a dynamic person during the interview."

come along
Go somewhere with someone.
"I wanted to watch the parade and Alex decided to come along with me."

Tell someone to hurry.
"Come along Emily. You don't want to be late for school!"

Arrive, appear.
"Tony needs a job. If an opportunity comes along he's determined to seize it."

Improve, develop or make progress.
"How's your mother coming along since she broke her leg?"

come apart
Separate into pieces.
"I need to get my glasses repaired. They came apart when they fell off the table."

come before
Be more important.
"She always says that her family comes before her career."

come by
To get, especially something that is difficult to obtain or find.
"How did you come by such a beautiful location to build your house?"

come down with
Become ill with.
"The architect planned to attend the inauguration but unfortunately he came down with the flu yesterday."

come forward
Present oneself; volunteer.
"The police have asked any witnesses to come forward. "

come out
Become known.
"The truth will come out sooner or later. It's just a matter of time."

come to
Regain consciousness.
"She fainted when the news was announced but she came to quite quickly."

come to
Reach a total amount.
"Let's see... two coffees and two orange juices, that comes to 7€ please."

come up against
Be faced with or opposed by.
"The plan to demolish the old theatre came up against a lot of criticism."

come up with
Produce an idea or plan.
"Sacha came up with a great idea for the party."

come upon
Find or discover.
"The police came upon a stock of firearms in a disused mine."

conk out
Stop working.
"The car conked out on the motorway."

Fall asleep (from exhaustion).
"He was so exhausted, he conked out in front of the television. "



consist in
Have something as its principal or only feature.
"The elegance of the building consists in its simplicity. "

consist of
Be composed or made up of. 
"The jury consists of five members."

count on
Rely or depend on.
"I'm counting on the taxi driver to find the theatre."

cross out
Remove by drawing a line through. 
"In some exercises you are asked to cross out the incorrect word."

cut across/through
Go across to shorten one's route. 
"I usually cut across the park on my way to work."

cut back
Reduce or decrease.
"It was decided to cut back production."

cut down
Strike down, cut at the base.
"A number of trees were cut down before the construction work started."

Kill or cause to die.
"He was cut down by pneumonia."

cut down on
Reduce in number or size. 
"The doctor told him to cut down on cigarettes."

cut in
Interrupt somebody speaking.  
"During his presentation of the project a journalist cut in."

cut off
Discontinue; interrupt.
"The operator cut off our conversation before we had finished."

Be separated or isolated.
"Our group was cut off from the others so we got lost!."

cut out
Remove using scissors.
"She cut out a picture of the actor in a magazine."

Stop doing something.
"I'm going to cut out eating sweet food."

deal with
Handle, take care of, address (problem, situation).
"The manager is good at dealing with difficult customers."

deck out (in/with)
Dress; decorate.
"The women were all decked out in beautiful dresses."
"The exhibition hall will be decked out in the colours of Europe."

die down
Calm down, become less strong.
"When the applause died down, she started to sing."

dig into
Plunge your hands deep inside something, especially to look for something.
"He dug into his pocket and found the key."

Press hard into something.
"The strap of her bag dug painfully into her shoulder."

Start to do something.
"It was time to dig into the work that had accumulated on her desk."

Take from something.
"Dad had to dig into his savings to repair the roof."

dig up
Break up the soil/remove by digging.
"Tom tried to dig up the tree by its roots."

Discover or reveal information.
"Some newspapers often try to dig up scandalous information."

dish out
Distribute or give away a lot.
"He spent the day dishing out invitations to tourists."

dispense with
Decide to do without something. 
"They've dispensed with the paper version so you'll have to download it."

do away with
Get rid of;  abolish.
"Some people think it's time to do away with the monarchy."

do over
Clean or redecorate.
"My parents will need to do over their living-room soon. The paintwork needs refreshing."

do up
Fasten (a garment).
"Good boy Charlie! You know how to do up your coat now!"

do without
Manage without.
"The shops are closed so I'm afraid we'll have to do without sugar."



drag on
Last longer than expected.
"We expected a short speech but it dragged on and on!"

drag out
Make something longer than necessary.
"Let's decide quickly and not drag out this discussion."

Make someone reveal information that they are unwilling to give.
"The police finally dragged out a confession from the suspect. "

draw up
Write (contract, agreement, document).
"An agreement was drawn up and signed by the two parties."

dress up
Wear elegant clothes.
"Do people dress up to go to the opera in your country?"

Disguise oneself.
"You know how children love to dress up at Halloween. It's part of the fun!"

drift apart
Become less and less close.
"We were childhood friends but we drifted apart over the years."

drift off
Gradually fall asleep.
"Once he was on the train he sat back, closed his eyes and drifted off."

drive at
Insinuate;  be trying to say.  
"I'm not sure I understand. What exactly are you driving at?"

drop behind
Fall into a position behind others.
"Our sales have dropped behind those of our competitors."

drop by/in
Pay a brief visit, usually on the way somewhere.
"I don't see her often but she promised to drop by one day for a cup of coffee."
"Jimmy sometimes drops in to see his grandparents on his way home from school."

drop off
Deliver someone or something.
"I'll drop you off at the bus stop if you like. I'm going that way."

Fall asleep.
"Granddad often drops off in front of the television."

drop out
Stop going to classes before finishing a course of study or the school year.
"Emily decided to go to art school, then dropped out after the first term."

drown out
Be louder in order to cover another sound.  
"They turned up the music to drown out the noise of the children outside."

ease off/up
Reduce, become less severe or slow down (pain, traffic, work ...)
"After Christmas, the workload generally eases off."

egg on
Encourage someone to do something..
"Egged on by his friends, the boy climbed over the wall"

embark on/upon
Start or engage in something.
"Lily embarked on a career that lead her to fame."

end in
Finish in a certain way/result in.
"Their tumultuous marriage ended in divorce."

end up
Finally reach a state, place or action.
"If Jack continues his misconduct, he'll end up in prison."

even out
Eliminate differences of opinion.  
"After a long discussion they managed to even out their differences."

Become level or regular.
"The old road was evened out to make it safer."

explain away
Find an excuse or plausible explanation.  
"How are you going to explain away the missing money?"


face up (to)
Accept to deal with something unpleasant.  
"Sam will have to face up to the fact that Jenny is not in love with him.

factor in
Include when calculating or trying to understand something.  
"We must factor in the age of the patients."

fall apart
Disintegrate; break; fall into pieces.
"My car is so old it's falling apart."
"Their marriage fell apart after they both lost their jobs."

fall back on
Be able to use something in an emergency. 
"We were lucky to have some tinned food to fall back on."

fall behind
Fail to maintain a certain level. 
"As a result of the accident she fell behind at school and had to study harder."

fall down
Lose one's balance and fall to the ground or floor.
"The baby tried to walk but fell down several times."

fall for
Be attracted to somebody or begin to be in love.
"While on holiday she fell for a handsome young man."

Be deceived into believing something.
"Steve fell for the story about free tickets for the football match."

fall in
Collapse inwards
"The roof of the supermarket fell in and many customers were injured."

fall off
Become detached or separate from something.
"The handle fell off the door as he tried to open it."

fall out
Become loose and drop.
"When you grow old your hair starts to fall out."

Stop being friends because of a disagreement or argument.
"Emma is not speaking to Julie anymore. They fell out during the school trip. "

fall through
Fail; not happen as planned.
"Our planned boat trip fell through because of the storm."

fall to
Become the duty or responsibility of someone (for example, a task) .
"It fell to me to announce the bad news."

figure out
Understand;  find the answer.
"I've bought a new oven. Now I'm trying to figure out how to set the timer.

fill in for
Temporarily substitute for another person.
"Eva is absent this morning and Julie is going to fill in for her."

fill out
Complete (a form/application).
"Please fill out the enclosed form and send it back as soon as possible."

find out
Discover or obtain information.
"I'm going to call the cinema to find out what time the film starts."

fire away
Ask questions in quick succession.
"May we ask some questions? Sure, fire away!"

fire back
Shoot back.
"The policemen fired back at the robbers."

fit in (with)
Feel comfortable or be in harmony with.
"He has difficulty making friends. He just doesn't seem to fit in with the others."

fix up
Repair or renovate.
"They're going to fix up the house before moving in. "

fizzle out
Gradually end.    
"They used to be very close but over the years their friendship fizzled out.

focus on
Concentrate on something.
"The advertising campaign will focus on the quality of the product. "

fold in
Mix one ingredient with another.
"Beat the eggs then fold in the sugar."

freak out
Panic or go crazy.
"She nearly freaked out when she saw the colour of her hair. It was a disaster!"

frown on/upon
Disapprove.
"My parents always frowned on smoking."

fuss over
Pay excessive attention to somebody or somebody.
"She's forever fussing over her grandson. It's just too much!"

get about/around
Move from place to place.
"It's not easy to get around the city without a map."

Spread, circulate.
"News of their separation soon got about."

get along (with)
Be on good terms; work well with.
"I must say I get along (well) with my mother-in-law.

get at
Imply; insinuate.
"I don't understand. What exactly are you trying to get at?

get away
Escape.
"According to the news report, the robbers got away in a black car."

get by (on)
Manage to cope or have enough to survive.
" It's difficult to get by on a low salary."

get down to
Start to actually do something. 
"That's enough chatting. It's time to get down to some serious work!"

get into
Enter a place.
"How did the burglar get in?"

get off
Leave (bus, train, plane).
"Your best option would be to get off the bus at Trafalgar Square."

Leave work (at the end of the day).
"I'll pick you up after work. What time do you get off ?"

Remove something (clothes, stains).
"I don't know how I'm going to get this stain off my dress!"

get off with
Receive almost no punishment.
"He was lucky. He got off with a small fine."

get on
Board (bus, train, plane).
"You can pay when you get on the bus."

get on with
Continue to do something ; make progress.
"Be quiet and get on with your homework."

get on (well) with
Have a good relationship with.
"Do you get on well with your colleagues?"

get out
Spend some free time out of the house.
"Her husband is very ill so she doesn't get out much."

Leave or go away.
"We don't want you here. Get out!"

get out of
Leave a place.
"The window was closed. How did he get out of the house?"

Avoid doing something.
"Some husbands manage to get out of doing any housework."

Receive; learn; gain from something.
"What are you hoping to get out of the seminar?"

get over
Recover from (illness, disappointment).
"Charlie had the 'flu but he got over it."

get rid of
Eliminate.
"It's difficult to get rid of old habits."



get round/around (to)
Finally do something.
"He finally got round to tidying the garage."

get together
Meet each other.
"Let's get together for lunch one day next week."

get up
Rise; leave bed.
"Tony usually gets up at 7 o'clock."

give away
Give something free of charrge.
"The artist gave away most of his paintings."

Reveal something.
"The names of the witnesses will not be given away."

give back
Return something to its owner.
"He promised to give back the book he borrowed."

give in
accept defeat; surrender
"The authorities refused to give in to the demands of the population."

give over!
Stop doing something irritating
"Give over complaining! It doesn't help at all!"

give up
Stop doing something.
"Sarah gave up smoking five years ago."

Admit defeat; capitulate.
"Have you found the answer? No, I give up."

gloss over
Treat something briefly (make it seem unimportant).
"The director glossed over the recent drop in sales."

go after
Pursue (an object or a goal). 
"She went after her dream and is now an actress."

go along (with)
Agree with; accept. 
"Alex tends to go along with anything his wife says."

go away
Leave a place.
We decided to go away for a few days. 

Disappear; fade.
"I've washed it twice but the stain still hasn't gone away."

go back
Return.
"Children go back to school after the holidays."

go by
Pass.
"A bus went by without stopping."
"Time goes by so quickly!"

go down
Decrease, reduce.
"The price of property has gone down a bit."

go down with
Become ill with an infectious disease.
"The match will be difficult . Half of the team has gone down with the flu."

go for
Try to gain or attain.
"He trained hard and went for the gold medal."



go in
Enter.
"There's a nice restaurant. Let's go in and book a table for tonight."

go into
Go inside.
"Go into the bakery and see if they sell croissants."

go in for
Have something as an interest or hobby.
"She doesn't really go in for sports."

go off
Explode.
"A bomb went off in a crowded restaurant"

Ring or make a loud noise.
"The alarm clock was set to go off at 6 a.m."

Stop working
"The heating has gone off. It's freezing!"

No longer be good to eat or drink.
"The milk has gone off. Don't drink it."

No longer like or enjoy.
"My grandmother has gone off crosswords."

go on
Continue.
"Sorry for interrupting. Please go on."

go out
Leave one's home to attend a social event.
"Many young people go out a lot."

go out
Stop burning; be extinguished
"The lights went out before we got to the door."

go out
Be sent
"The letter went out yesterday."

go (out) with
Have someone as a boyfriend/girlfriend.
"Is Julie going (out) with Tom?"

go over
Review.
"Please go over your answers before handing in your test."

go through
Experience  or undergo something.
"Pete went through a lot of pain after the accident."

Examine or study carefully.
"I need time to go through the contract before I sign it."

go through with
Proceed with something difficult.
"Bill and Amy finally went through with the divorce."

go up
Increase, rise.
"According to the news report the price of petrol is likely to go up."

go together/with
Match; look good or combine well with
"The curtains don't go with the carpet."
"The curtains and carpet don't go together."

go without
Abstain from something; not have something.
"I had to go without lunch to finish the report."
"Camels can go without water for many days."

grow up
Spend one's childhood; become an adult.  
"He grew up in a small village."
"Don't be so childish. You need to grow up!"

hand back
Return.
"She read the article and then handed it back."

hand down
Pass on (by tradition, inheritance...).
"My clothes were handed down to me by my older sister."

hand in
Submit (report, homework).
"All application forms must be handed in before the end of the month."

hand out
Distribute.
"Samples will be handed out at the end of the demonstration."

hand over
Give to someone in authority.
"The boy was forced to hand over the mobile phone he had stolen."

hang back
Be reluctant to do something.
"All the children rushed towards the clown except one boy who hung back."

hang on
Wait.
"Hang on a minute. I'm nearly ready."

hang on to
Keep a hold on something.
"Be careful. Hang on to that rope and you'll be ok.

hang out
Spend time in a particular place or with a group of friends.
"Where does Danny hang out these days?"
"Who does he hang out with?"

hang up
End a telephone conversation.
"Please don't hang up. I haven't finished yet.



head off
Start to go somewhere.
"The group of tourists headed off to the train station."

head for
Go towards or move in a certain direction.
"We all started to shout because the boat was heading for the rocks."

hit at
Aim a blow at something.
The customer hit at the wasp with a newspaper."

hit back
Retaliate; reply to an attack.
"When he was attacked, the boy hit back with all his strength."

hit on/upon
Find unexpectedly or by inspiration.
"As she watched the news she hit upon an idea for her new collection."

hold off
Delay something until a later time.
"Could you hold off your decision until after the meeting?

hold on
Wait for a short time.
"Hold on a moment please. I'll put you through to Mr. Brown."

Grip tightly.
"She held on to the railing as she crossed the bridge."

hold up
Show as a example.
"The teacher held up the diagram for all to see."

hook up
Fasten (a garment).
"Can you help me to hook up my dress? It's a bit complicated."

hook up (with)
Link broadcasting facilities.
"Many networks are hooked up by satellite."

hurry up
Be quick; act speedily.
"Come on Harry. Hurry up! We're going to miss the bus!

idle away
Waste time doing nothing much.
"He idles away hours every day watching television."

iron out
Resolve by discussion; eliminate differences.
"The meeting tomorrow will be an opportunity to iron out difficulties."

impose on/upon
Ask too much of someone.
"Is it alright if I stay? I don't want to impose upon your hospitabity."

improve on/upon
Make better.
The runner trained regularly to improve on his previous performance.

indulge in
Allow yourself to enjoy something.
"I’ve been dieting all week but today I'm going to indulge in a dessert."

insure against
Guarantee compensation for damage, injury, etc.
"The passengers on the boat are all fully insured."

invite out
Ask someone to join you for lunch, dinner, etc.
"Harry invited her out for dinner."


join in
Participate in something.
"We couldn't persuade Eva to join inthe game. She was too shy."

join up
Engage in, become a member of.
"John was in the army and Tom joined up as soon as he left school."

Meet and unite with.
"The two groups of tourists joined up at the hotel."

jot down
Take quick notes.
"I jotted down the address while watching a documentary on television. "

keep at
Persevere.
"His father encouraged him to keep at his studies."

keep back
Retain; force to stay back.
"A barrier will be installed to keep back the fans."

keep on
Continue doing something.
"I told the children to be quiet but they kept on making noise."

keep up with
Stay at the same level as someone or something.
"Bill walks so fast it's difficult to keep up with him."

kneel down
Go down on your knees.
"Most people kneel down to pray."

kick off
Begin; start.
"The football match is planned to kick off at 3 p.m."

knock back
Drink quickly (usually alcohol).
"He knocked back a pint of beer and then went home."

knock down
Strike someone or something to the ground.
"The child was knocked down by a car on the way to school."
"The tree was knocked down during the storm."

knock out
Cause someone to fall unconscious.
"The boxer was knocked out in the first round."

know of
Have heard of; have knowledge about.
"Do you know of anyone else attending the conference?"

laugh off
Make light of something; minimise.
"The author laughed off the unflattering review of his latest book."

lay off
Fire, dismiss, let go.
"Many factories have had to lay off workers."

leaf through
Turn over pages quickly.
"Sophie leafed through a magazine in the waiting room."

leak out
Become known to the public unofficially (information).
"News of the planned merger leaked out before the end of the negotiations."

leave out
Omit; not mention.
"Tom's name was left out of the report so he got no credit for his work."

let down
Disappoint.
"You promised to come to the party, so don't let me down!

Lengthen (skirt, pants).
"The skirt is too short? We can have it let down for you if you like."

light up
Illuminate.
"1 watched the floodlights light up the castle."
"Her face always lights up when she sees her grandson."
"The screen lights up when you turn on a computer."

line up
Stand in a row.
"The books were lined up neatly on the shelves."

live through
Experience something and survive.
"My grandparents lived through two wars and learned to survive."

liven up
Make something livelier or more attractive.
"We've got to find a way to liven up the presentation somehow. "

log in/on (to)
"Access a program or database using a password."
"You need to log in to your account before you can use our services."

log off
End access to a database.
"First log off the system and then turn off the computer."

look after
Take care of.
"A baby sitter looks after the children when their parents go out."

look ahead
Think of the future.
"Don't keep thinking about the past . It's time to look ahead and plan the future.



look at
Pay attention to something you see.
"Look at this picture of my grandfather when he was young."

look at
Read in order to give an opinion.
"Have you got time to look at my business plan?"

look at
Examine closely.
"That's a nasty bruise. You should ask a doctor to look at it."

look at
Examine or study carefully.
"We are going to look at all possible options."

look away
Turn your head away so as not to see.
"The scene was so horrible that I had to look away."

look back on
Remember the past.
"My parents and their friends like to look back on "the good old days"."

look down on
Consider as inferior.
"He tends to look down on anyone who is not successful."

look for
Try to find something.
"Jane went shopping to look for an outfit for the wedding."

look forward to
Await or anticipate with pleasure.
"I look forward to seeing you next week-end."

look into
Examine or investigate.
"Our after-sales service will look into the matter and call you back."

look on
Be a spectator at an event.
"Billy didn't take part in the fight. He just looked on. "

look out
Be careful; pay attention.
"Look out! There's a car coming."

look over
Examine; review.
"The editor will look over the article before it is published.

look through
Examine, usually quickly.
"I'll look through my mail to see if I can find your message."

look up to
Admire.
"He was a wonderful teacher and many students looked up to him."

lose out
Be unsuccessful; suffer a loss.
"I'm the one who will lose out if our plan goes wrong."

lose out on
Miss or be deprived of something.
"I watched the documentary until the end so as not to lose out on anything."
"Because I left before the end of the year I lost out on the annual bonus."

lose out to
Be less successful than another.
"Jose was called for an interview but he lost out to a candidate who spoke fluent English."

make do with
Use something less satisfactory as an alternative.
"There were no chairs to sit on so we had to make do with a pile of boxes."

make for
Move in the direction of; head for.
"Let's make for the exit before the crowd starts to leave."

make fun of
Laugh at ; make jokes about.
"The old lady dresses so strangely that the children make fun of her."

make (something) into
Convert or change into.
"We're going to make our garage into a playroom."

make of
Have an opinion about something.
"What do you make of his latest suggestion?"

make off with
Steal and hurry away.
"A young man made off with my briefcase while I was checking the timetable."

make out
Be able to hear or read something.
"I need glasses!  I can't make out what's written on the board."

Fill in the details (e.g. cheque).
"Please make out the cheque to ABC Wizards."

make oneself out (to be)
Claim to be/pretend to be.
"In an attempt to find more details, he made himself out to be a journalist ."

make over
Legally make someone the owner of something.
Before she died she made over all her property to her children.

make up
Invent (excuse, story).
"Some employees make up excuses when they arrive late for work."

Prepare a bed for use.
"You can stay here tonight. I'll make up a bed for you in the spare room."

Form, constitute.
"In your opinion what qualities make up his character?

Put on powder, lipstick, etc.
"Cynthia spends ages making herself up/putting on make-up

make up (with)
End a quarrel and become friends again.
"Come on you two! It's time to shake hands and make up."

make up for
Compensate for.
"If I work longer the next few days I can make up for the time I was absent."

mark down
Reduce the price.
"The coat was marked down by 40% - a real bargain!"

miss out on
Lose an opportunity to do something.
"What a shame. If you leave before Saturday you'll miss out on the party."

mix up
Mistake one thing or person for another.
"I don't know the members' names yet. I tend to mix them up."

move in
Arrive in a new home or office.
"You've bought a new house? When are you moving in?"

move out
Leave your home/office for another one.
"My neighbour is leaving. He's moving out next Saturday."


nail down
Make someone say something precisely.
"Alex promised to come for a week-end but we'll have to nail him down to a date."

name after
Give the same name as another person.
"My husband wanted William to be named after his grandfather."

narrow down
Reduce a list or a number of options.
"The list of suspects has been narrowed down to three people."

nod off
Fall asleep.
"My grandfather very often nods off in front of the television."

nose about/around
Try to discover by searching.
"The boss hates people nosing around his desk."

note down
Write something down.
"I'll call the station and note down the departure times."

opt out (of)
Leave a system or decide not to participate.
"I enjoy tennis but I'm so busy I had to opt out of the tournament. "

own up
Admit or confess something.
"The boy owned up. He said he kicked the ball through the window."

pass away
Die.
"The old lady passed away peacefully."

pass on
Transmit.
"Don't forget to pass on the information to all the members."

pass out
Faint; lose consciousness.
"She passed out when she received confirmation that the plane had crashed."

pay back
Reimburse.
"I will lend you 20€ provided you pay me back before the end of the week. "

phase in/out
Introduce or discontinue something gradually.
"The government decided to phase in the new regulations."

pick on
Choose someone to blame, punish, bully, etc.
"The other children were always picking on Charlie because of his red hair."

pick out
Select; choose.
"Will you help me pick out a handbag to go with my outfit?"

pick up
Learn.
"Children are quick to pick up a new language."

Collect somebody/something; give someone a lift.
"James is coming to pick me up at the station.."

play up
Cause pain or discomfort.
"My stomach is starting to play up again after all that heavy food."

Emphasise the value or make something seem more important.
"Donald always plays up his achievements."

play down
Minimise the value or make something appear less important.
"The government tried to play down the gravity of the situation."

pop across/over/down/out
Come or go quickly in the direction specified.
"She popped over to the shop to buy a sandwich."

pop in
Make a brief visit.
"My daughter sometimes pops in for a cup of coffee."

pop up
Arise, occur.
"The question of security popped up during the meeting."

pull in
Move to a designated place at the side of the road.
"A police car signalled to me to pull in."

pull off
Leave the road momentarily.
"I was tired from driving so I pulled off for a rest and a cup of coffee."

pull out
Move out from the roadside onto the road.
"A motorbike suddenly pulled out in front of me."

pull over
Move over to the side of the road.
"She pulled over to make way for the ambulance."

pull up
Stop.
"All vehicles must pull up at the traffic lights."

pull through
Overcome difficulties or illness.
"My grandmother caught pneumonia last winter but she pulled through."

put away
Return something to the place where it is usually kept.
"Please put away the dictionary when you've finished using it.

put back
Replace, return to its proper place.
"Please put the dictionary back on the shelf beside the others."

put forward
Propose or recommend something.
"The chairman put forward a proposal to move to bigger offices."

put off
Postpone; delay; arrange a later date.
"The meeting has been put off until next week because of the strike."

put on
Turn on / switch on.
Could you put on the light please?

Wear a garment or piece of clothing.
"You'd better put on your coat - it's cold outside today."


put out
Extinguish.
"It took the fire fighters a long time to put out the fire."

put (yourself) out
Go to a lot of trouble; be inconvenienced.
"Please don't put yourself out for us."

put (something) out
Leave or place something outside the house.
"Don't forget to put out the dustbin this evening".

put through
Connect two people (on the phone).
"Just a moment please. I'll put you through to Mr. Brown."

put up
Erect, build.
Danny put up a tent in the garden to keep the children happy."

put (someone) up
Accommodate; give someone a bed
"We can put you up if you'd like to come for the week-end."

put up with
Tolerate.
"I don't know how you can put up with the noise of all that traffic."

point out
Indicate; direct attention to something.
"My mother pointed out the house where she grew up."

reel off
Recite without effort or pause.
"Stella amazed everyone by reeling off all the phrasal verbs she had learned."

rely on
Count on; depend on; trust
"Don't worry. You can rely on me. I can keep a secret."

rig out (verb)
Dress or equip.
"The old lady arrived all rigged out in her best clothes."

ring back (also: call back)
Return a phone call.
"John rang this morning and asked if you could ring him back."

ring off
End a phone call.
"The caller gave his name and then rang off."

rub out
Erase.
Write it in pencil so that you can rub it out later if you want to change it.

rule out
Eliminate.
"The police are still investigating but they have ruled out political motives."

run away
Escape from a place or suddenly leave.
"He ran away from home at the age of fourteen."

run about/around
Be busy doing many different things.
"Julie has been running about/around all week getting ready for the wedding."

run across
Run to the other side of something (a road, a bridge...).
"The pickpocket ran across the road and jumped onto a bus."

run after
Chase something.
"Tom threw the ball along the beach and the dog ran after it."

run into (also : bump into)
Meet by accident or unexpectedly .
"Sophie ran into Maria at the shopping centre."

run on
Continue without interruption.
"We didn’t expect the chairman's speech to run on for so long.”

run out
Expire, come to an end.
"Let’s order now before the offer runs out.”

run out of
Have no more of something.
"What a nuisance! We've run out of coffee."

run up
Accumulate a debt.
"James ran up a large amount in hotel expenses at the trade fair."

Make something quickly.
"My mother can run up a pair of curtains in no time.”

run up against
Encounter difficulties or problems.
"The property developer ran up against strong local opposition."


scale back/scale down
Make something smaller than originally intended.
"Due to the crisis the company had to scale down the size of the plant."

scrape together/scrape up
Manage to find or collect enough of something you need, usually money.
"We finally scraped together enough money to buy an old car."

scrape through
Succeed with difficulty.
"How I scraped through the exam is still a mystery to me!"

set off
Start a journey.
"Early Saturday morning we set off for the ski slopes."

set up
Start a business.
"Victoria set up her own company 10 years ago."

settle for
Accept something not quite satisfactory
"I was hoping for a better proposal but I'll settle for the amount you offer."

shop around
Compare prices.
"It's always wise to shop around before buying anything."

show off
Brag or want to be admired.
"There's Donald showing off in his new sports car!"

show up
Appear; arrive.
"We expected William to come but he didn't show up."

shut up (impolite)
Be silent, stop talking.
"Oh shut up you idiot!"

sign away
Give up one's rights or ownership.
"He signed away his property and joined a religious community."

sign in
Register (e.g. at a hotel).
"As soon as we've signed in we'll go and get something to eat ."

sign out
Pay your bill and leave (e.g. a hotel).
"At 9 o'clock he signed out and left for the airport."

sign over (to)
Transfer ownership of something.
"He signed over the house to his two children."

sign up (for)
Enroll in an activity.
Emma signed up for a computer course.

sign up (with)
Sign an agreement to work for somebody.
"Paul has signed up with a news agency."

single out
Select for special attention.
"Two of the boys were singled out for extra coaching.

sink in
Be fully understood.
"In spite of the detailed news reports, it took a while for the scale of the disaster to sink in."

sit down
Take a seat.
"Please come in and sit down."

sleep in
Sleep later than usual.
"Tomorrow is Saturday, so I can sleep in!"

sleep over
Stay overnight at someone else's home.
"You're welcome to sleep over if you don't want to drive in this weather."

slip up
Make a mistake.
"You slipped up there! His name is Alex, not Alan!"

slow down
Decelerate; go more slowly.
"George! You're going to cause an accident. Slow down!"

sober up
Get rid of the effects of too much alcohol.
"Jack decided to go for a long walk to sober up."

sort out
Organise, resolve a problem.
"There was a misunderstanding but Lea sorted it out."
"Students should sort out their books at the end of the school year."

speed up
Accelerate; go faster.
"We need to speed up the registration procedure."

stand for
Represent, mean.
"VAT stands for value added tax."

Tolerate.
"There's no way I'm going to stand for such bad behaviour!"

stand up
Rise from a sitting position
"The pupils stood up when the headmaster arrived."

stand up for
Support or defend someone or something.
"You must learn to be assertive and stand up for your personal views."

stick around
Stay somewhere for some time.
"I'll stick around until the end of the parade."

stick out
Come out.
"The speaker's shirt was sticking out from his trousers."

Become noticeable.
"With that dress you'll really stick out!"

stick (something) out
Tolerate, accept to continue.
"Lunch with my girlfriend's colleagues was boring but I had to stick it out - I had no choice!"

stick to
Continue without changing anything.
"We must decide on a plan of action and stick to it."

stick together
Support each other.
"Good friends always stick together."

stick with
Continue using or doing something.
"I'll stick with this grammar book because it has everything I need."

take after
Resemble in appearance or character.
" Jamie really takes after his dad."

take apart
Dismantle or separate the components.
"The technician has to take the machine apart in order to repair it."

take away
Cause something to disappear.
"The doctor gave my father tablets to take away the pain."

Buy food at a restaurant and carry it elsewhere to eat it.
"Two beef curries to take away please."

take back
Agree to receive back/ be returned.
"We will take back the goods only if you can produce the receipt."

Retract or withdraw something said.
"I take back what I said about cheating. I didn't mean it."

take care of
Look after.
"I'll take care of your plants while you're away."

take off
Leave the ground.
"The plane took off at 7 o'clock."

take in
Allow to stay in one's home.
"The old lady next door is always taking in stray cats and dogs!"

Note with your eyes and register.
"Amanda took in every detail of her rival's outfit."

Understand what one sees, hears or reads; realise what is happening.
"The man immediately took in the scene and called the police."

take on
Hire or engage staff.
"Business is good so the company is taking on extra staff."

take out
Remove ; cause to disappear.
"Try this. It should take out the stain."

Extract from somewhere.
"She took out a pen to note down the supplier's address."

Invite someone to dinner, the theatre, cinema, etc.
"Her boyfriend took her out for a meal on her birthday."

Obtain a service or document (insurance, mortgage ...).
"Many homeowners take out a mortgage when they buy  property."

take to
Begin to like someone or something.
"My parents took to James immediately."

Make a new habit of something.
"Dad had taken to walking in the park every morning.'

take up
Fill or occupy space or time.
"There's not much space here. The big table takes up too much room.

Adopt as a hobby or pastime.
"My father took up golf when he retired."

Start something e.g. a job.
"While writing his first book he took up a job as a teacher."

Make something shorter.
"That skirt is too long for you. It will need to be taken up.

Continue something interrupted.
"She took up the story where Bill had left off."

talk into
Persuade someone to do something.
"Caroline talked John into buying a new car."

talk out of
Persuade someone not to do something.
"Her parents tried to talk Amy out of leaving her job."

tear up
Rip into pieces
"Tear up the pizza boxes before you put them in the bin."

tell off
Reprimand; criticise severely
"The teacher told her off for not doing her homework."

test out
Carry out an experiment.
"The theory hasn't been tested out yet."

think over
Consider something fully.
"I'll have to think over your proposal before I decide."

think up
Invent, find, produce by thought.
"The kids put the cat in the oven because it was cold. What are they going to think up next!"


throw away/out
Discard as useless or unwanted.
"You can throw away that book - it's a load of rubbish! "

throw up
Vomit ; be sick.
"I nearly threw up when I saw the injured passengers."

tire out
Exhaust completely.
"The children were so turbulent they tired out their grandmother."

touch down
Land on the runway.
"There were no delays. The plane touched down exactly on time."

toy with
Think about, without serious intent.
"I've been toying with the idea of walking to work, but it would mean getting up earlier."

track down
Search until found.
"The police finally tracked down the main suspect."

trade in
Give as part payment for a new article.
"I traded in my old car for a new model."

try on
Put on or wear something to see if it suits or fits.
"I'm not sure about the size. Can I try it on?"

turn away
Refuse entrance to someone.
"Tickets were sold out and hundreds of fans were turned away from the football stadium."

turn down
Lower the volume.
Please turn down the music; it's too loud.

Refuse.
"It would be silly to turn down a generous offer like that!

turn off
Stop by turning a switch, tap or knob.
"Please remember to turn off the lights before you leave."

turn up
Arrive; appear.
"Her train was delayed so she turned up an hour late at the meeting.

Raise the volume.
Could you turn up the radio please? I'd like to listen to the news.

use up
Finish a product ( so that there's none left).
"What a nuisance! The kids have used up all the toothpaste. "

veer away from
Avoid, stay away from.
"I veer away from hypochondriacs if I can."

vouch for.
Express confidence in, or guarantee something.
"You can give the keys to Andy. I can vouch for him. "

ward off
Keep away or repel (something dangerous or unpleasant).
"I take plenty of vitamin C in winter to ward off colds."

warm up
Reheat something. 
"She didn't have time to cook so she warmed up some left-over soup."

Make more lively or more relaxed.
"He told a few jokes to warm up the atmosphere."

wash up
Wash the dishes after a meal.
"Who's going to help me wash up?"

wash up
Be carried onto the land or shore.
"Items from the boat were washed up on the beach."

watch out
Be careful.
"Watch out! There's a car coming."

water down
Dilute or make weaker by adding water.
"If you water down the medicine it will be easier to take."

Make less severe.
"He watered down his remarks so as not to offend anyone."

wear away
Disappear after use or over time.
"The words printed on the cover had worn away."

wear down
Make someone feel weary or tired.
"Kim is exhausted. The baby's constant crying is wearing her down."

wear off
Gradually disappear.
"The effect of the painkiller began to wear off."

wear out
Become unusable.
"During the trip Julie wore out her shoes sightseeing.

Become very tired
"At the end of the every day Julie was worn out."

whip up
Prepare quickly.
"I can whip up something to eat if you're hungry."

wolf down
Eat greedily and quickly.
"The boys wolfed down the whole cake in no time!"

work out
Do physical exercise.
"Tanya works out twice a week at the gym club."

Find a solution or calculate something.
"It's going to be expensive but I haven't worked out the exact cost yet."

wind up
Finish or put an end to something.
"Before winding up his speech he thanked everyone for their presence."
"Larry decided to wind up his business and retire."

Arrive finally in a place.
"After a long drive we finally wound up in a village with a spectacular view."

wipe off
Clean (board, table).
"The teacher asked one of the children to wipe off the board."

wrap up
Cover; enclose.
"She's busy right now. She's wrapping up her Christmas presents."

Complete (a task, a discussion).
"The salesman hoped to wrap up a few deals at the end of  the demonstration."

write back
Reply to a letter.
"Lucy and Steve sent me an invitation and I wrote back to accept it."

write (something) down
Note something on a piece of paper.
"Richard wrote down the address of the hotel."

